and now it's time for another dice tower
review with tom vasel king's critters is
a children's game it's the second in a
series by victory point games this is
one that's in a box usually they come in
bags they started putting them in boxes
now this one's designed by K Jensen who
is the wife of Chad Jensen who designed
you know war games and has designed
dominant species and so his wife must
have taken some of that expertise or
maybe has given him the expertise
because she taken a kid game a kids game
and added strategy to it let's look at
it
the game board I should point out is a
bunch of puzzle pieces that all fit
together they're wooden puzzle pieces
and the tokens for the game you're
supposed to get like a little Bowl or
something that pulled the tokens off are
also a little wooden tokens you'll
notice the game has a Candyland type
feel and that's because the designer
kind of started from that viewpoint and
went out adding strategy to the game
each person is going to be a knight
what's happened here is all the animals
have gotten loose from the zoo the King
zoo all those fantasy creatures and
they're escaping any the caption it
before the dragon wakes up and gets them
now the dragon starts here and is asleep
and each person will start here and the
game is kind of a roll and move type
game we're on your turn you will roll a
die you will look at the number and
that's how many spaces you move the
space that you land in you will draw a
card for that space that space will have
something that happens whether the
dragon is asleep or awake for this
instance it says for example move a
creature on the board five spaces where
there are none and then put a new
creature on the board in the red space
and you can see there's two spots here
to take ritas start so it would draw one
and here's a creature that's worth six
points so I put that there and then the
next person goes now what you're trying
to do is you're trying to land on these
critters exactly as you move around once
you have them exactly you will place
them in your cart down here on the side
of the board now this will go well and
people will go around critters will be
running around the board people will be
capturing them but at some point in time
as you turn over these red cards from
these red spaces here and this red space
here one of the red cards eventually
will say the dragon awakes at this point
the dragon awakes and the dragon is
going to move around from card pile to
cart pile at first the dragon will start
next to the cup and you can't take any
more creatures out of the cup until you
move in but you'll have a lot of
opportunities whenever you go to a
space where there's no longer any cards
because many of these spaces have only a
few cards at them then once you land
there you can move the Dragons any zone
when that dragon moves to his own he
sits on top of the cards also the cards
stay awake and when a dragon goes to his
own he will capture i like to say eat
all the animals that are there when the
dragon is on the last card pile or when
all the card piles are out or when all
the creature tokens are gone the game is
over players are trying to capture these
they carry them in the cart then they
need to take them back to the starting
spot they don't need to get there by
exact count they just need to get there
so otherwise you everything needs to be
exact count but eventually all the
creatures with what the game will end
one of those ways and then you'll simply
add up all the point values and the
creatures that you've captured and
whoever has the most creatures is the
winner okay there's some simplicity to
this game where you rolled I move around
the board you can pick where you move
each turn and you have to think when you
move somewhere are you going to turn a
card over where can you move so that you
can land on one of these creatures once
you get the creature let's quickly get
back and deliver the creature what
happens when that dragon wakes up and
runs all over the board what did you
guys think about this game I didn't you
didn't like it okay well let's talk
about uh Amy first what did you like
about it well I like how you collected
the creatures although wasn't fair since
now they got all the good high point
went okay Molly would you like um I like
this game because I like the artwork i
like the different types of animals
definitely fairy tale ish um but I
didn't like about it is that the dragon
awakes only a one duck when even lots of
people didn't land on it alot ok now you
didn't like it why not funny it was like
kind of boring and you don't like you
don't have to like having site make into
anything fun you're just trying to
collect the mammals haha ok well fair
enough now the components of this game I
like the wooden tokens the wooden board
the cards could have been better quality
wasn't real keen on
them although I did like the artwork
throughout the game it has a light fun
feel as anything did you like all the
different cool weird creatures that
you're trying to capture yeah yeah so
that that's an interesting fact feature
for it it's not a difficult game it says
here on the box that it's 47 and up and
I think that's a very reasonable age
definitely a kids game adults aren't
going to find enough strategy here to do
much with it but certainly one that you
might be interested in Kings critters
thanks so much for watching the dice
tower videos find more great videos and
reviews as well as our top-rated audio
podcast at dice tower calm you can also
find the latest board game news at dice
tower news com I'm Eric summer and
you've been watching the dice tower the
dice tower is sponsored by fun again
games the world's best game source fun
again games has over 5,000 games of a
law check them out o monigan calm